In the extraction part of the lesson,
you learned that data comes in all different formats and sizes.
Oftentimes you want to combine part of one data set with part of another data set.
These data sets might be in different formats like a CSV file and JSON file.
Let's say you have a CSV file that has three columns country,
gross domestic product, and year.
You also have a JSON file containing country name, year, and population.
You want to visualize changes over time in gross domestic product per capita.
Per capita means you'll need to divide the gross domestic product by the population.
However, you can't merge JSON data and
a CSV file together without first transforming the data.
In this particular case,
it will probably be easiest to transform
the JSON data so that it looked more like the CSV file,
then you could perform a join using the country name.
There isn't a hard and fast rule for how to combine data sets together.
Every data set will be different both in terms of formatting and
content which means the processes for combining the data will be different.
In the next part of the lesson,
you'll find an exercise for combining data from different sources.
Python's pandas package will be
a huge help and I'm assuming that you already know how to use pandas.
If you're unfamiliar with pandas or feeling a bit rusty,
I've provided a few learning resources below the video.
So, let's get coding.